 Although we know well enough that, in addition to the Jewish poll tax of 220,000 Polish zlotys generally established by the constitution of 1717, the Jewish elders, through their private arrangements and divisions, are accustomed to collecting far larger sums, with no small burden on all Jewry, especially those residing in the Royal and noble towns, and to use these funds for their own loans and private expenses; and the Commonwealth, with proper consideration, may have far greater emolument from the Jewish tax without burdening them; therefore, abolishing the aforementioned agreed-upon sum of the poll tax, and following the example of the 1624 constitution, we establish a general poll tax from all Jews and Karaites, both in the cities and villages of the Royal, ecclesiastical, and noble estates, in this manner: after paying the Jewish tax due for the current year 1764 in the usual manner, in the future, all Jews and Karaites of both sexes, counting from the year of birth, nullo excepto, shall pay two zlotys annually from each head in the manner described below.

 We therefore decree and command all Jewish elders and their Kahals, both in Lesser and Greater Poland, as well as in all the provinces belonging to the Crown, and we announce and oblige all Starosts and leaseholders of Royal estates, as well as ecclesiastical and secular lords, that as soon as this statute is published, firstly, in every town where there is a Jewish Kahal, the Rabbi himself, with the Parnas and the third official, and where there is no Rabbi or Parnas, two of the best Jewish householders, with an official chosen by the authorities, shall begin a census of all Jewish heads, not only in that town, but also wherever the parish of their Kahal extends; and in order to have this census as accurate as possible, we oblige all Starosts, leaseholders, and also ecclesiastical and secular lords, to either personally, or through their stewards and administrators, add one Catholic nobleman of good faith and reputation to those appointed in each town for the purpose of counting the heads of Jews and Karaites, and to order him to faithfully and jointly, without separation or departure, record and sign the names and surnames of all Jews living in the town (to which Jews from all the villages belonging to that Kahal or parish are obliged to come under Jewish excommunication), and not only Jews and Jewesses and their children and servants found in their homes, but also those on journeys or having households in two cities, and to present these lists to the principal Grod courts of the Voivodeship or Land, or District, where the Commissioners mentioned below are appointed, by the 2nd day of January 1765.

 We, the undersigned, swear: that in conducting this census in all places and dwellings, we have faithfully recorded, according to the Seym statute, all Jewish and Karaite persons, from the oldest to the youngest, in the dwellings, parishes, and on journeys, without omitting any, in no way influenced by hatred, taking no bribes, accepting no promises, and will not accept them, and that we have fairly fulfilled this duty of census-taking entrusted to us.

 And we warn the lords of ecclesiastical and secular estates that if any of them should not compel the Jews and Karaites in their estates to do all this, and should neglect to add a Catholic nobleman of good faith, or should hinder such a census or its execution, and by any pretext not allow it, each such person, that is, a clergyman in his Chapters and functions, and a secular lord at the Seymiks and Seyms, as well as in courts, shall ipso facto be deprived of all activity; but moreover, for disobedience to this law, upon the complaint of the Crown Treasury, or of anyone else, to the Economic Treasury Commission, he shall be sentenced, that is, a secular lord by imprisonment in the upper tower for two Sundays, and both secular and ecclesiastical lords by a fine of two thousand fines, to be paid immediately, without any delays or legal evasions, for which immediate execution, even after the first sentence and decree, shall be carried out on the estates and income of the offenders by the competent Office, with the assistance of the Treasury. A clergyman shall be sent pro poenis personalibus to spiritual jurisdiction, and a lawyer to his superiors. And the spiritual jurisdiction shall be obliged to carry out the punishment and execution of the spiritual person without delay, according to the intent of this statute, within six weeks at the latest, under penalty of a thousand fines, to be allocated to the Treasury Commission. 

 We therefore appoint as Commissioners for Lesser Poland: To the Voivodeship of Krakow, and the Districts of Krakow, Proszowice, Lelów and Książ, and the Duchies of Zator and Oświęcim: Alexander Miłkowski, Chamberlain of Krakow, ....... Morski. To the Districts of Biecz, Sanok, Czchów and Szczerzec: Anastazy Garlicki, Deputy Voivode of Sanok, Józef Jordan, Deputy Voivode of Biecz. To the Voivodeship of Sandomierz, and the Districts of Sandomierz, Wiślica, and Pińczów: ....... Trzecieski, Stanisław Potoczyński. To the District of Radom, the Land of Sandomierz, and the Districts of Opoczno and Chęciny: Franciszek Kochanowski, Libiszewski, Regent of Opoczno. To the Voivodeship and District of Kiev, and the District of Żytomierz: Jan Pruszyński, Miecznik of Kiev, Józef Trypolski. To the District of Owrucz: Piotr Dybowski, Antoni Wasilkowski. To the Voivodeship of Ruthenia, and the Land of Lviv: Roch Czechowicz, Adam Białoskorski. To the District of Żydaczów: Nereusz Broniewski. To the Land of Przemyśl: Bazyli Biliński, Antoni Borzęcki. To the Land of Sanok: Kajetan Cieszanowski, Klemens Brzeziński. To the Land of Halicz: Józef Poradowski, Chamberlain of the Halicz Border, Maciej Karwosiecki. To the Land of Chełm: ....... Karski, Cześnik of Łatyczów, Józef Dudyński, Stolnik of Łatyczów. To the Voivodeship of Volhynia, the Districts of Łuck and Volodymyr: Jan Markowski, Jerzy Falkowski, Vice-Regent of Grabowiec. To the District of Krzemieniec: Antoni Wolski, Jerzy Omieciński. To the Voivodeship of Podolia, and the Districts of Kamianets and Czerwonogród: ...... Leśniewicz, Miecznik of......, Gorwidowski, Łowczy of Czerwonogród. To the District of Łatyczów: Antoni Kurowicki, ...... Godlewski, Chamberlain of the Płock Border. To the Voivodeship of Lublin, and the Districts of Lublin and Urzędów, and the Land of Łuków: Józef Głuski, Wojski of Lublin, Antoni Suchodolski, Chamberlain of the Lublin Border. To the Voivodeship of Bełz, and the Districts of Bełz and Lubaczów: Kazimierz Głogowski, Vice-Regent of the Grabowiec Castle, Spirydion Sobieszczański. To the Districts of Busko, Grabowiec and Hrubieszów: Jan Gintowt Miecznikowicz of Bełz, Paweł Wydżga, Vice-Regent of the Grabowiec Castle. To the Voivodeship of Podlasie, and the Lands of Drohiczyn and Mielnik: Jan Czarnocki, Burgrave of the Drohiczyn Castle, Paweł Siestrzewitowski, Burgrave of the Mielnik Castle. To the Land of Bielsk: Maciej Wnorowski, Vice-Regent of Bielsk. To the Voivodeship of Bracław: Antoni Trzecieski, Walenty Oraczewski. To Greater Poland, the Voivodeship of Poznań: Hermenegild Chrzanowski, Scribe of the Nakło Castle, Antoni Ryszewski. To the Voivodeship of Kalisz: Piotr Korytowski, Ignacy Byszewski. To the Voivodeship of Sieradz: Stanisław Stawski, Burgrave of the Piotrków Castle. To the Land of Wieluń: Antoni Morszkowski, Scribe of the Wieluń Castle, Józef Madaliński. To the Voivodeship of Łęczyca: Walenty Kobrzyński, Jan Dobek. To the Voivodeship of Brześć Kujawski: ......Pogonowski, Scribe of the Brześć Castle, Andrzej Mniewski. To the Voivodeship of Inowrocław: Franciszek Moszczeński, Regent of Brześć, Andrzej Dobiecki. To the Land of Dobrzyń: Jan Ośiałowski, Regent of the Bobrowniki Castle, Wojciech Kolczyński. To the Voivodeship of Płock: Antoni Niszczycki, Cześnik of Zawskrzyń, Walenty Bonkowski, Treasurer of Płock. To the Voivodeship of Mazovia, the Lands of Czersk, Warsaw, Wyszogród, Zakroczym, and Ciechanów: Floryan Małowieski, Vice-Regent of the Wyszogród Land, Tomasz Kraiewski. To the Lands of Wizna, Łomża, Rożan, Liw and Nur: Marcin Truszkowski, Burgrave of Wizna, Dominik Mchowiecki, Chamberlain of Ciechanów. To the Voivodeship of Rawa: Wojciech Domaszowski. To the Land of Sochaczew: Marcin Goiszewski, Chamberlain of the Sochaczew Land. To the Land of Gostynin: Jan Magnuszowski, Chamberlain of the Sochaczew Land. To the Voivodeship of Chełmno: ....... Dzierzgowski, Paweł Przeradowski. To the Voivodeship of Malbork: Roch Płachecki, Vice-Regent of Skarszewy, Leon Butler. To the Voivodeship of Pomerania: ......Owidzki, Regent of Skarszewy, Franciszek Rembieliński.

 Who, on the aforementioned day, the second of January in the following year 1765, shall come to the principal Grod Chancellery of their Voivodeship, or Land and District, where they are appointed, and before those acts, and where the Grod is vacant, before the nearest ones, in the presence of the nobility then present, shall first take an oath on the rotha:

 I, N., swear etc. etc. as I swear, so I will faithfully and diligently listen to both Catholic and Jewish census-takers, receive the registers written and signed by them, and from the received ones, I will compile the Jewish poll tax tariff in the designated places, attaching to each town the Jewish parishes belonging there. I will write this tariff as diligently as possible, submit one of them to the local acts per oblatam, and send the other one without fail to the hands of the Treasury Scribe at the nearest chamber, together with the census-takers' registers, and in doing all this I will not be swayed by any favor, fear, bribe or promise, but I will be content with the salary specifically assigned to me by the Estates of the Commonwealth, and I will faithfully and conscientiously fulfill the duty of Commissioner entrusted to me. So help me God and the innocent suffering of His Son: after completing this, establishing their jurisdiction, they shall issue registers to the noble and Jewish census-takers, correct the produced censuses of Jewish and Karaite heads signed by them, and after summing up each Kahal separately with the Jewish parish in terms of heads, they shall fairly receive the oath, first from the Catholic nobility and then from the Jews, on the actual inscription of the registers, in the manner described above, and from all such registers signed and sworn by the census-takers, they shall compile and write out as accurately as possible the tariff of the Jewish and Karaite poll tax for the entrusted Voivodeships, Lands, or Districts, specifying each town and townlet with parishes, sum it up, sign it with their own hands, and submit one of them to the acts of those per oblatam, and send the other one, as well as all the censuses received from the census-takers with their signatures and signed by themselves, to the nearest chamber to the hands of the Treasury Scribe in exchange for a receipt, which shall be done within eight weeks at the latest; upon receipt of which tariff the Crown treasury shall immediately pay each Commissioner one thousand zlotys against a handwritten receipt.

 If any of the appointed Commissioners should refuse this function, they shall have no longer than until the end of October of the current year, in which time, having first made a Grod announcement, they shall write and send their announcement to the Economic Commission, which shall substitute others for those refusing; and both the substituted and the currently appointed Commissioners shall be obliged to fulfill the entrusted duty, and in the event of non-fulfillment of the above, they shall be deprived of their active voice and moreover, upon the complaint of the Instigator of the Crown to the same Economic Commission (where they can only be excused by true illness, confirmed by a corporal oath), for negligence, they shall be punished by imprisonment in the tower for four Sundays and payment of two thousand fines. And the same Economic Commission shall immediately after the deadline (or if, in the meantime, any Commissioner should die) have the power to substitute another Commissioner at the first and certain notice.

 And if at any time this Commission appointed to the Voivodeships, Lands and Districts for the compilation of tariffs should not be able to achieve its goal within the appointed time, then the Economic Commission shall consider the means necessary for its accomplishment, resolving all intervening cases, and bring it to execution, and such a general tariff compiled from all Voivodeships, Lands and Districts shall be valid for five years; according to which the payment of this poll tax shall be made in the following manner, that is: Jewish and Karaite leaseholders living in the villages shall come themselves to their Kahals where they belong, and the Kahals de proprio (even if in any year they should not be in the full number of heads counted) shall pay to the Crown treasury and the chamber in the Voivodeship in which they are located, according to the arrangements of the Treasury Commission, and not the lords for them, in two installments, March and September, starting from the 1st of January of next year, 1765, punctually against the receipts of the chamber scribes, without taking any receipt or grosz fees, under treasury or military execution, upon issuing an order for the army. After which time a new census and tariff shall be carried out by the census-takers, who shall be appointed in due time by the Treasury Commission. If, however, there should be a false census or tariff of any estate, then for its correction, wherever necessary, other Commissioners or census-takers, through whom any deviation should appear, shall be exemplarily punished as defrauders of the public treasury.

 If, however, all the Jews and Karaites from a given town should leave or die, then in such a case, upon the oath of the lord or administrator of that town before the Economic Commission that these Jews left the town not for court reasons but for their own insolence and willfulness, or in the case of death, that they died, and the lord did not take their property, except for debts, either his own or creditors', at a higher price, then for that time the fund shall be free from paying the poll tax, and the houses and other Jewish real estate in the town, after a prior assessment by the Town Hall, shall be used to pay this tax.

 And since the lump-sum Jewish poll tax established by the constitution of 1717 is now abolished, and a general one per head is being established, therefore all meetings, divisions, and other impositions, exactions, and extortions of any kind on Jewish towns, townlets and parishes practiced until now, from the aforementioned time of the 2nd of January 1765, whether devised under any pretext or ordered by the Under-Treasurer or Voivodeship universals, are hereby forever abolished, under penalty of six thousand fines, and sequestration of the opposing Jews, to be decided by the Economic Commission at the request of the treasury, or an interested party.

 Since the general Jewish debts, either concerning all or the Voivodeship Kahals, were to be contracted earlier by the Land elders, therefore all elders shall undoubtedly come to the quarterly session of the Treasury Commission in February 1765, which is to be held, with all papers, documents and registers showing the contracted debts, for the purpose of informing, discussing and even, where necessary, resolving and devising ways to settle them by the Jews." 
